The pagination object is applicable only when the result payload contains a data field. It describes the pagination of the records contained in the data array, as a way to identify which subset of data is being returned.

If the data key is not present in the results, pagination should be ignored. All of the following responses are acceptable, and should be ignored equally.

 pagination key omitted from the metadata
 "pagination": null
 "pagination": {}
 "pagination": {"totalCount" : 0, "pageSize" : 0, "totalPages" : 0, "currentPage" : 0}

Most endpoints in BrAPI use page index numbers to determine how to get the next page of data. Page numbers start at zero, so the first page will be page 0 (zero). When appropriate, a request will have two parameters for paging: page and pageSize. page allows the client to request a specific page number. Page numbers start at zero, so the first page will be ?page=0. pageSize allows the client to control the maximum number of records that will be returned per page. A typical paged response will have four fields: currentPage, pageSize, totalCount and totalPages. currentPage is the number for the current returned page. In most cases, this will be a confirmation of the requested page parameter. If page is not populated in the request, then currentPage should have the default value zero, indicating the first page of data was retrieved by default. pageSize indicates the number of records in the current response page. totalCount indicates the total number of records available in the unpaged super set. totalPages indicates the total number of pages available and can be calculated with the formula totalCount / requested pageSize.

Note: A small subset of BrAPI endpoints use a nextPageToken instead of an page number. These endpoints are related to Genotyping and the alternative paging scheme is better suited to handle larger data sets. These endpoints are clearly marked as different from the norm and the paging mechanism is described in more detail in the endpoint descriptions.